---
layout: post
title:  "The start of RinoCloud "
date:   2016-01-25 17:34:57 +0000
author: Fin
categories: jekyll update
---

![](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/rinocloud/static/rinocloudMain.svg)

Rinocloud is a team of physicists, biologists, chemists, electronic engineers
and programmers from University of Cambridge, University of Oxford and the
Tyndall National Research Institute. We have access to some of the best labs in
the world with some of the most sophisticated instrumentation and lab automation
software available. Yet we find ourselves constantly wasting valuable time -time
that should have been spent on core research - trying to figure out the optimum
way to manage our data.

Instrument software has to be configured to generate the data. This has to be
interfaced to lab automation software for data analysis. The data in turn has to
be configured and formatted for saving in folders in local workstations and
servers - and then copied to generic cloud storage, mainly Dropbox and Google
Drive. Add to this the time needed to pull all the data back from the cloud,
organise it with locally stored data and then format it again so that it could
be analysed by local applications. It’s not efficient! So we built Rinocloud.

## Rinocloud.

A seamless storage hub for scientific data. Cloud based that can be searched,
shared and secured the way scientists need it Integrates with incumbents -
instrument control, lab automation and data analysis software. Built on the user
familiarity of generic solutions such as Dropbox and Google Drive. Notebook,
presentation, collaboration features intrinsic Downloadable and set up in
minutes.

Well, we specced and built the software based on a minimalist view of what was
the Most Viable Product. We asked colleagues and friends to comment and give
feedback. Three hundred volunteered to beta test for us. We now have the software
running in Cambridge, Tyndall, MIT, Oxford and in universities in Spain and
Japan. Not only it is working - it’s exceeding expectations and scientists are
clamoring to get access . It’s solving a problem that our users struggle with
every day: It’s dealing with inherent inefficiencies that cost projects, funders
and labs money: through inefficient use of researchers time; through less than
optimal collaboration; through data getting lost or deleted, through not meeting
audit and regulator standards; It’s helping, sweat lab assets by getting the
most out of investment in personnel and equipment – by efficiently organizing
their outputs – data; It’s meeting funders needs for audit ability; It’s meeting
regulators needs for open access standards. Over the coming weeks we will be
significantly increasing the numbers of beta users. We’re trying to get a cross
section of different scientific disciplines and we’re looking for
experimentalists and theorists. If you to try the software just enter your email
details and as soon as a slot opens up we’ll email you with instructions.
