---
layout: post
title:  "Why I left my PhD at Cambridge to start Rinocloud"
date:   2016-01-18 07:34:57 +0000
author: Eoin
categories: blog
---

I worked hard to get into Cambridge to do my PhD. I became an EU fellow, was
assigned a two of the top scientists in the world in semiconductors.

I got to work in the [Cavendish
lab](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cavendish_Laboratory), my peers were some of
the best researchers in the world in their field.

I love science. The investigation. The analysis. I love the carrying out of
experiments. Watching the data being generated. but...

Data management is a pain. The corralling of the data after it is generated and
the busy unproductive work of preparing it and getting it organised for
analysis. The hacking needed to configure lab information systems and integrate
instruments. The cutting and pasting of long laborious files into generic
storage systems. The inefficient  sharing of data via files, memory sticks and
email. The dreaded search for data. A colleague working on another project left
and my team were asked to take over his research. It took us 6 weeks to figure
out where his data was and what it contained. The data management was so bad
that we could not verify the results of his data and the project could not
continue.

I checked to see if there was system out there that would organise my data for
me, and  plug into all the different programs I use. I couldn't find anything.
If I had these problems I figured researchers the world over were experiencing
the same. I dropped out of my PhD and am now doing a start up building a SaaS
solution for every day scientific data management.

Our team have built and rolled out an MVP that deals with many of the issues we
lived with as researchers. It looks like we’ve hit a chord. Friends and
colleagues in some of the top research universities in the world have encouraged
us to build and keep building the product. Many are using and testing in closed
beta. More have signed up to be rolled out as testers. We have a rigorous
feedback loop and the discipline now for us it to make sure we keep to a well
defined roadmap because we’re getting so many suggestions for improvements and
new features to solve the myriad of everyday data management problems
researchers are experiencing.

So, the problems we’re solving are resonating. Hence the big opportunity to
build a business.

 I’m happy to talk to anyone about data, science, starting a business and share
war stories and insights. We’re accelerating releases of beta versions now and
have plugins for Python, Matlab and Labview. Data being poured into the
rinocloud hub has full metadata and we have a clever search facility. Rolling
out soon are auto plotting of data, an electronic notebook and a whole raft of
collaboration features.  Take a look. [Sign up. It’s
free!](https://rinocloud.com/)
